---
layout: post
title: "February Meeting - Building API Client Gems"
date: 2013-01-31
---

Texan Rubyists (and welcome visitors),

Our next meeting will be next Monday, **February 5th**, from **7:00-9:00pm** at
[Capital Factory][CF] downtown. Our talk will be from [Ben Hamill][BH] of
[Return Path][RP] on Building API Client Gems.

 [CF]: http://www.capitalfactory.com/about/contact/
 [BH]: http://twitter.com/benhamill
 [RP]: http://www.returnpath.com/

### Synopsis

There are a lot of great services on the internet, these days. Most commonly,
they’re accessible by making HTTP requests and parsing the responses. But
building requests up, then parsing and reifying the responses can be a pain and,
honestly, isn’t what a service’s consumer developers should be spending their
time doing. So people write and share libraries to handle interfacing with a
remote service. This talk is a collection of lessons learned and opinions formed
based on writing one such gem. We’ll talk about how to decide what kind of API
gem you’re writing, why you should separate your API access logic, some of the
things to consider about documentation, and several other topics.

### Bio

[@benhamill](http://twitter.com/benhamill)
has been playing with Ruby for about five years now and one day plans to have
some kind of idea of what's going on in the world around him. He recently wrote
and released the [contextio gem](https://github.com/contextio/contextio-ruby),
and helps maintain a few other libraries. By day, he works at Return Path making
email awesome, and by night does a lot of game playing of all sorts. He's got a
degree in Linguistics and would love to discuss English etymology with you. Ben
is a Pepper.

### Kata

After the presentation we’ll be pairing off to work through a brand new
[code kata][kata]. You’ll definitely want to remember your laptop.

 [kata]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kata_(programming)

Beers and socialization practice to follow at a location TBD on 6th.

### Location

Thanks again to [Capital Factory](http://www.capitalfactory.com/) for providing
the space for this month’s meeting! You can find them on the 16th floor of the
Austin Centre business tower, downtown at 701 Brazos Street.

We’ll see y’all there!
